In the last section of this course you've learned how to send an email to our user and we used a simple
example when we have send an email to notify our blog post out or that someone has commented on his
blog post.
So let's take a look at the current flow and what are the problems with and with this flow.
So we have a user that adds a comment.
And this goes as a request to the web server.
Whether this is engineers or Apache and it gets processed by BHP it gets to our application for simplicity
let's assume that everything happens inside a controller as we did that this way in the last section.
Now the controller has to fetch some data from the database whatever that might be and then it tries
to send an email.
So we have used the mail for seed.
It's send the method and the problem with that is at this point it tried to communicate with an external
server.
This actually was a mail drop SMP server but anyway you could have noticed that sending a comment has
significantly slowed down.
It was actually a couple of seconds.
And now what we are dependent on when we are trying to add a comment is how fast the remote server is
sending this e-mail whether this is as empty server or external service like mail gun or SARS from Amazon
how fast it will respond back to us.
So we know that the e-mail was sent.
We get the response and we return it back to the user browsing the web site.
So this is not very efficient.
And sometimes there are things that you don't really have to do immediately.
So they are not crucial to serve back the response to the user.
And this is one of those examples so it's a perfect candidate to move it to the background processing
or cues.
And this is what we'll cover in this section.
So now let's take a look at the new flow that will add so we'll talk about the cues in general in a
second but let's now focus on what we would like to achieve.
So this starts as usual.
We have a user making a request adding a comment and now there is something happening inside the controller
that might be just adding this comment to the database.
But instead of trying to immediately send the e-mail and waste time on communicating with any external
services we just add a job to a queue.
Now queue can be stored in different kind of storage.
We'll get to that in a second.
So for now let's just assume that we store this job somewhere.
So job would be a thing that has to be done by some background process which means not throughout the
web request that is being made to your server and handled by BHP.
It is stored somewhere for later processing.
So this allows us to immediately return the response to the user and the user does not notice that the
web page is slower for any reason.
Now this another background process is basically a command that you will run on your server and by server.
I do not mean a web server like Apache or engineers.
It is just a machine where you host your Web site.
So wherever that might be a digital ocean Amazon or just any kind of server.
So what we will run is a queue process or and this is basically pretty simple what this will do is it
will get something from the database.
Now this queue process or will process all the jobs that were added to be processed later.
So basically we might have created a job called send e-mail to the user that created the blog post.
Now we'll run a queue process or and this will Brandy's job.
This job might do anything.
It might read something from the database so we get this data from the database.
Now we can try to send an e-mail.
This will communicate with the external server and if everything goes well that job will be processed.
And this queue processor can just pick up the next job to be done.
So that's a very simple explanation of what will happen.
Now let's take a look at how this actually set up so there is a concept of drivers inside the queues.
So you need to choose where you would store all those jobs.
So you have basically initially you are provided with five options.
It's either sink.
This would be just storing those jobs inside a plain text files which is totally inefficient.
It's just for development purposes it can store jobs inside a database table.
This is what we will use throughout this course to make things simpler.
But there are also specific applications or services that are just created to process jobs.
One of them is the beanstalk.
There is Amazon rescue us which is just for that.
It is a service from Amazon to create and process jobs on a cue.
And then there is Redis.
So this is our workflow.
So we have larval application wherever that is controller or anything else doesn't really matter.
But this will create a job.
Of course don't worry about it.
How do you create a job.
What a job is.
We'll get to that we have examples in a second.
You will actually see how simple that is in light of all.
So let's assume we create a job something to we say Lara I'll do it later OK.
Travel will then started on the que so on the storage basically whatever that might be.
This would be one of the drivers whichever you choose to use.
Now another process the queue worker will ask this storage and it will always pick up our job.
One by one so it will pick up that next job that has to be processed then it will process that job whatever
that may be.
We will make some classes like our mid-level classes to be automatically cued.
So this would not even require any coding from us to make them background processes and we'll also create
job classes where we will specifically tell Lavell what has to be done.
So we are at the point of processing a job now.
It will see if this job was successful.
If nothing has brake or nothing was broken.
So if there was a success this will remove this job from the storage.
So this won't be run anytime again.
So this will be just remove the job is done or if this will fail.
If this job will fail it can optionally store it on our failed jobs table inside the database to be
processed later.
Now this might seem a little bit complicated but we needed this initial explanation especially if you
are totally not accustomed to the queues and background processing but in a second in the next lecture
you will see how actually simple that is and will achieve creating our first background job and then
running it basically almost without any coding at all.